---
title: Params
menuText: Params 
description: Ampt provides a built-in paramater store that allows us to store the keys encrpyted and only available during runtime. 
menuOrder: 7
has_children: false
has_toc: false
---
# Parameters

Ampt’s built-in parameter store allows developers to store the parameters in a secure way, and to use them programmatically with `params` interface of Ampt SDK.  All the parameters are encrypted both at transit and at rest and only decrypted during runtime. 

<aside>
💡 NOTE: When you modify a parameter value in the Ampt Dashboard, the changes are instantly applied to all running environments that require the parameter. No restart or anything required to flush the parameters.

</aside>

# Parameter Scopes

Some parameters apply to all apps within an organization, while others might be specific to a particular project or application. Additionally, an application will almost probably use a different value of a parameter in the production and development.

**Organization-level parameters** are defined under [Organization Settings](https://www.notion.so/1198d7c4c80f4c06911f3fe4477c4226)
 in the Ampt Dashboard. Every environment of every app will inherit those parameters automatically. Organization-level parameters can be overridden at the  app, and environment levels. For example, you can define an API key to be used for a third-party vendor as `THIRD_PARTY_API_KEY` and you can override this parameter for the production environment (permanent environments will be available soon).

**App-level parameters** are defined for each application under App Settings. This is helpful when you need to declare a parameter that must be used by all environments of an application. For example, you can define the `STRIPE KEY` for the billing app, and it will be applied solely to this app's environments.

All the parameters defined at organization and app level are inherited at environment level and applied to the app running in the particular environment. You can’t define a new parameter at environment level but you can override the inherited parameters’ values. For example, you can override the API keys required for your personal sandbox. 

# **Reserved Parameters**

Ampt reserves some of the keys that are automatically populated by our runtime. The following parameters below are not allowed to be defined on Ampt Dashboard. 

| KEY | Value |
| --- | --- |
| ORG_NAME | The organization that application belongs to |
| PROJECT_NAME | The name of the project of the app |
| APP_NAME | The name of the application |
| ENV_NAME | The name of the instance that application runs on |
| AMPT_URL | The URL of the application generated by Ampt |

# **Reading parameters programmatically**

Developers can access the params injected to the runtime by using the `params` interface. 

```jsx
import { params } from ("@ampt/sdk");
import { api } from ("@ampt/api");

api('my-api').router('/test-data')
  .get('/', async (event) => {
	
  // reading a custom parameter in an API handler
  console.log(params("KEY"));

  // reading reserved parameters is same as reading the custom parameters
  console.log(params("AMPT_URL"));

  // return all params
  const parameterList = params().list()

  // exported params are available as environment variables
  console.log(process.env.AMPT_URL)
});
```

# Exporting parameters as environment variables

Developers can export all the Ampt parameters to environment variable and use it in this way. 

```jsx
import { params } from ("@ampt/sdk");
// exporting at init time

params().export() // export all parameters as environment variables
params().export("KEY") // export specific key to process.env
params().export(["AMPT_URL", "KEY"]) // export list of keys to process.env

api('my-api').router('/test-data')
  .get('/', async (event) => {

  // exported params are available as environment variables
  console.log(process.env.AMPT_URL)
});

```
